AMA Abu Daka was the 13th Al jazer
journalist killed since the network
launched in 1996 the statement released
by Al jazer condemns in the strongest
terms the Israeli drone attack on a Gaza
school that resulted in the killing of
caman Sam Abu Daka it adds the network
holds Israel accountable for
systematically targeting and killing
alzer journalists and their families and
extends its sincere condolences to the
family in Gaza and in Belgium of the
late colleague S Abu Daka
with the killing of Samu Sama abua the
number of journalists and media workers
killed in Gaza reached over 90 Al jazer
urges the International Community and
the international criminal court to take
immediate action to hold the Israeli
government and Military accountable well
hany Mahmud is live for us in Rafa in
southern Gaza and honey in light of the
killing of Summer can you just give us
an idea of the risks you and and other
journalists there are
facing
this good morning Tom just a devastating
uh news that we received uh at
about midnight and and and it it was a
little late for us to to receive it due
disabled Communications as we were uh
trying to uh get uh updated on what
happened to our colleague and friend uh
s as early as we could but uh disabled
communication me just difficult to know
to learn more about his health status
eventually we received the devastating
news of his death as he's come to his WS
that he he sustained and and with this
happening you just we can we look at at
a a pattern since the beginning of the
world that there's nothing protects
journalist across the Gaza Strip and and
we see more more evidence of of this
happening that U almost on a weekly a
bases more more journalists and and more
reporters and more people working and
documenting the the atrocities uh of the
Israeli uh crimes and and this genocidal
War across the Gaza Strip being targeted
either directly uh being killed or their
families are being targeted just to
inflict so much pain on on on them and
and and their work and to to prevent
them from continuing uh where there
there is no way around bullets and and
there's no way around bombs they always
they always win against the Flesh and
and and this is the ugly truth of of
what's happening to to the
point you're you're pushed to feel that
there's all what is done is is is
pointless but then you look that there
are things that needed to be documented
the story of of Gaza the story of gazand
need to be told to to the world and and
and that's that's probably the most uh
driving motivation for for the
journalist Community across the god
strep to keep working despite the fact
despite the the dangers despite the the
risk uh uh the imminent threat of of
their lives and and and and of of not
only them but also their family members
so far jazer U journalist in Gaza have
lost family members uh and now the
themselves they being targeted uh
starting with
and then we have a broadcaster and then
a journalist who lost his family members
and now Sam himself being the target of
of of the Israeli attacks in in in KH
yunes as they were doing their job
professionally and and and just stating
things as they happen with without
without any any any addition any editing
any any anything to to sound other than
the truth uh but
despite that and and committing to to
the professional level of their job they
were targeted and killed and let's not
forget that there also three uh civil
defense crew members were also at the at
the site when the attacks hav they were
also killed and and and that's the
pattern we've been seeing since the
beginning of the
war the the educated the El class of
educated uh members of our community of
being targeted doctors
Engineers um journalists and uh those
who work in in healthare those who work
in education uh are the targets and and
seems to be like a it's it's done on
purpose just to [__] the society for
years to come okay thanks so much honey
just uh know that your work is more
vital than ever thanks so much honey
mmud for us in
Rafa Palestinian journalists in Gaza and
not just covering the war they are part
of a civilian po population living under
near constant Israeli bombardment as
honey was talking about there at least
90 Palestinian journalists have now been
killed in the conflict more than 50
media premises or officers had been
completely or partially destroyed by
Israeli strikes that includes the office
of the AFP news agency in Gaza hundreds
of Palestinian journalists and their
families including those from Al jazer
have been forcibly displaced journalists
working in areas of armed conflict are
protected under International
humanitarian law as are civilians under
the Geneva Convention but Israel is
accused of repeatedly violating those
rules